today I will be reviewing this IKEA
Friday work station desk after having
owned and used it now for over three
years coming up Rover intro hey nametags
and welcome this is Ashe for me my tech
helping you go from newbie to techie
now a couple of disclaimers before we
start this video is not sponsored I've
bought this desk a few years ago with my
own money
no is it influenced by anyone's decision
to make this video and also this video
is based on my personal opinion on my
current needs for what I do so the pros
and cons I'm gonna be talking about will
vary according to your own specific
needs so do your own research both good
and the bad okay so this desk costs me
150 pounds about two hundred and twenty
nine dollars and delivery might be an
issue if you have a small car so you're
looking at around thirty five pounds of
delivery it will vary depending where
you are from Ikea and also if you are
not good with assembling you might need
to pay someone which might cost you
about 25 pounds so the absolute costs if
you organically delivered and getting
someone to assemble for you would be
about 200 pounds or about 275 US dollars
the assembly video unfortunately I don't
have because when I did that three years
ago I wasn't doing much content back
then but if you're used to assemble IKEA
stuff is pretty standard I was able to
do it myself took me roughly about two
hours but I would advise if you can get
an extra pair of hands it would help
especially in some parts of it okay so
the size the minimum width says 140
centimeter and maximum width is hundred
eighty-five and that's because of these
two added shelves that you can put on
each end depth of this is seventy four
centimeter and we have a height of 146
centimeter
now these shelves that I talked about
earlier you can actually also put them
inside but in my case as you can see
I've got three monitors so it's taking
up space so I've put it outside the top
shelf currently is housing a 40 inch LCD
TV with only some side space for
anything you want really under the top
shelf there are four hooks which are
really too big to put your kids on there
so it could be useful headphones or the
cable routing I guess
IKEA says if you take this top shelf you
can actually fit a 32 inch computer
monitor or TV so I haven't done that but
that's up to you but I think you can
actually fit a lot bigger than that
there are some high side panels to help
block sunlight and prevent distracting
glare on your computer monitor however
for me they sometimes make quite some
rattling noise which is very annoying
for people like myself who are very
noise sensitive or who need silence when
content creating there are four holes on
the desk two at the back and two in
front the back ones are for cable
pass-through or management and the front
two are for included cupholders I don't
really use it to put drinks are just
used to put USB keys or anything else
like screws or even coins sometimes now
the main monitor shelf is 140 centimeter
by 28 centimeter and it's elevated to an
inner height of eight point five
centimeter which is great for eye level
monitoring with the metal outer height
around six centimeter to slide things
through underneath as you can see it
holds my three BenQ 22 inch monitor
screens but the outer monitors come out
a little bit bit of a slide so I but not
a deal-breaker however this is my first
big gripe with this desk it's this main
monitor shelf here the space underneath
is too low and I cannot remember how
this was assembled as I probably did
follow the instructions as close as
possible so I would have assembled this
shelf at this height but this
potentially could be readjusted as there
are holes for that at this stage I'm no
longer bothered to find out I could
potentially no go back and try to
disassemble parts of it and put it back
but I'm not bothered so if you're going
to assemble this do you think ahead and
see if you would need a much higher
height here back then when I did that I
only had a small desktop computer and
only one screen so it wasn't really an
issue the main desk top shelf has a cut
out to accommodate sitting a lot closer
to the monitor but for the molecular
sizes I have it's not really an issue
even if I did the city bit further away
and that would give an approximate area
of 132 centimeter by 45 centimeter
less we cut out bit however for my size
I found that the L
resting element is not that comfortable
a little bit too wide for my liking but
as for when typing on the keyboard only
when using both the keyboard and mouse
at the same time for things like gaming
it's slightly better but I prefer to
have my elbows flat touching something
rather than in open air so it's just a
personal preference once you put the
keyboard and mouse there is very little
space for anything else I usually have
at least an info pad for note-taking and
maybe a ring binder file open as well
and it's not comfortable to use all
these together I find myself having to
write sideways which is a problem for me
all the times I used to try to do small
repairs or even putting a small laptop
on the desk but it's not very
comfortable for those purpose I even had
a mixer here but that didn't work very
well neither and this space under the
monitor shelf is a waste of design in my
opinion as the height is too small to
put things under you can slide the
keyboard and mouse underneath if you're
not using the computer and monitor I
guess and that creates space for
studying but if you like me I study a
lot on the computer and I do need to
take notes so this is really a
no-brainer and this is my second biggest
gripe with this workstation I would have
preferred to have an option to mount a
sliding tray for the keyboard and mouse
underneath here but unfortunately there
is no pre-cut or holes for that it would
take some DIY and then you might have an
issue with legroom and height here at
the bottom you have an open space and
two shelves measuring 48 centimeter by
25 centimeter this is an issue if you're
considering mid to full desktop towers
like this fractal design or five black I
can barely fit it here and the back
posts and top front panels are difficult
to access and to hook certain types of
USB or headphone jacks this one is
barely fitting for smaller computer
cases it should be fine another issue is
the shelf probably will not hold the
total width of this desktop case for
example as you can see I had to put a
temporary very I saw leg screwed onto
this ugly looking MDF board to help with
supporting the weight as I am sure it
would break as it's only being held by
screws on two sides only on the other
side I currently have my printer but
it's an awkward positioning and
orientation of course there is no way I
can fit that printer on to the main desk
to shelf or top shelf in my
configuration if you only have one
monitor one printer would foot here
perfect or even on top without something
like this TV here and of course my very
ugly cable management and this is my
third biggest gripe here the lack of
panels and cable management options IKEA
is well known for its modularity
features with some sweat imagination but
more importantly time I'm sure I can
come up with some DIY options to fit
more of the tools I need for my content
creation needs but time is the biggest
factor here and lastly there are no
drawers or no under units so no extra
storage whatsoever
I would have preferred some panels to be
able to route all my cables behind there
so some sort of cable management would
have been good with that now for the
future I would personally stick to a
more clean square modular design from
Ikea compare this with this much smaller
desk from Ikea which I think has only
about 60 pounds I'll put the link below
for the actual name of this
it's simple effective and I can actually
DIY it easily with the inclusion of two
drawers and a cupboard unit and even a
cable management under the desk it's a
great option for 60 pounds and yes I
actually do a lot more work on this one
of course you can't put three screens
and 40 inch TV here but maybe two
screens or a 32 inch TV or monitor and
in a smaller form factor desktop and
with this desktop I can actually place
it flat on the carpet because it hasn't
got any ventilation at the bottom with
my other desktop because there are
bottom ventilation system for drawing
air in and do you want to put it flat on
the carpet so I had to use the Shelf so
in the future I would probably want to
sell off this workstation to get myself
a more square simple design with modular
functions so I can actually add on as I
go along however there are some good
features about this workstation I mean
the black sleek design is really nice
it's a universal appeal it's very solid
very sturdy and quite stable on the
carpet and it looks like it will be
quite durable for a very very long time
it might even outlive you if you look
after it
so all-in-all it's quite good value for
money and
mentioned before if you only have
minimum computer needs it should be
quite fine and the bad points for this I
think it has a very deceptive design for
maximum real estate potential for
content creation or other multi
workstation tasks like what I do and
again this is my opinion in my current
situation so maybe I think I've outgrown
it it doesn't fit my needs anymore and
the other bad point is the lack of
modular options for which IKEA is very
well known so this was my personal
opinion and my review of this desktop if
you do want buy this do your research
try it out and you know ask other people
I do recommend it for quite a lot of
people but if you're considering content
creation like myself and you have a lot
more needs and a lot more tools you
should look at something more
traditional or even DIY one from scratch
okay guys thank you so much for watching
I don't normally do these kind of
reviews I thought I'd start with
reviewing anything I own which is to do
with my tech work so if you like this
kind of review let me know in the
comments below and we'll do more of that
I am NOT very good with doing these kind
of reviews obviously and like I said
it's not a sponsored video but I would
want to finish all the things actually
owned before moving on to having
sponsored content so I'm not really
biased with the reviews I'm gonna give
you once again guys thank you so much
for watching you know what to do down
below leave me a like comment share this
vid and subscribe if you haven't done so
yet as always this was a pleasure
this was ash from Hill my tech helping
new girl from newbie to techie until
next time peace out
[Music]